---
author: Dustin Davis
comments: false
date: 2005-01-24 16:04:34+00:00
link: https://dustindavis.me/faith-of-a-child-childlike-faith/
slug: faith-of-a-child-childlike-faith
title: Faith of a Child / Childlike Faith
banner: ../banner.jpg
bannerCredit:
  'Photo by [Patrick Fore](https://www.patrickfore.com/) on
  [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)'
categories:
  - LDS
---

_[The following is the talk I gave in church yesterday]_

As far as the gospel is concerned, faith is a very broad subject. There have
been many talks given on the subject of faith. Faith has always been one of my
favorite and most intriguing topics because, without faith, we can do nothing
[D&C 8:10], and without faith we cannot please God [Heb 11:6], and without faith
there cannot be any hope [Moroni 7:42].

According to the prophet Joseph Smith, â€œFaith is â€¦ the moving cause of all
action in â€¦ intelligent beings.â€ In other words, we would not do anything in
life if we did not have faith that it would lead to some sort of desired
outcome. Think about it. Would you drive through green light if you did not have
faith that the lights for cars moving in the opposite direction were red, and
that cars moving in that direction would stop for the red light? On a more
spiritual level, would you read your scriptures if you did not have faith that
doing so would lead you to greater spiritually? Would you pray if you did not
believe there was a God, and that He was listening? That may be a loaded
question, because there may be many instances in which we pray without faith.

<!-- more -->

In order to rein in this grand topic, I would like to discuss the faith of
children, because ultimately, I believe that is where our faith begins, and
ironically, as we grow in years, it is that same type of faith we work to
obtain.

A poem by David Velazquez entitled â€œFaith of a Childâ€ goes as follows:

<blockquote>

> _The father, a well digger, strong was he,_

_And as loving and kind as a father could be._

>

> _And Mary his daughter, five years old,_

_Was very much dearer than millions of gold._

>

> _To Mary her father was big, grand and nice,_

_So each had a treasure, beyond any price._

>

> _One day to the well, little Mary was sent_

_To take daddy's lunch, how gladly she went._

>

> _But when she looked down, not a thing could be seen._

_The well, like a pocket, was dark as could be._

>

> _The father saw Mary and heard her voice, too,_

_But made not a sound, just to see what she'd do._

>

> _She dropped to her knees, the dear little soul,_

_And called down, "Oh, Daddy, are you down this hole?"_

>

> _"Why yes Mary darling, I'm here at your feet,_

_Just drop my lunch for I'm ready to eat._

>

> _Just let it go easy, I'll catch it all right."_

_She did and she saw it fall out of sight._

>

> _"Why Mary," said father, "There's enough here for two,_

_Now this is the thing I would like you to do._

>

> _You jump down here to me and we'll eat it together,_

_Down here in the cool and away from the weather."_

>

> _"Oh, daddy, I'm afraid, I can't see you at all,_

_Be sure now you catch me and don't let me fall."_

>

> _'Twas just for a moment she wavered in doubt,_

_Then closing her dear little eyes she jumped out._

>

> _In the darkness, yes, that was the test,_

_She trusted in faith in her father's request._

>

> _And both were so happy he kissed her and smiled_

_Because of the sweet trusting faith of his child._

>

> _"Oh, sweet little Mary, you put me to shame,_

_How often my Father has called me the same._

>

> _But because it was dark I turned back in doubt._

_Refusing the call, though his arms were stretched out."_

>

</blockquote>

Yesterday afternoon, while preparing this talk, I called my father who lives in
Roosevelt. I asked him if there were times in my life growing up when I
displayed these virtues of childlike faith.

The first thing that immediately came to his mind, and which he and my mom often
comment about, is when my mom was pregnant with her third child. I was four
years old. As soon as she told my brother and I the news, I prayed that it would
be a girl. In fact, I remember this being a routine in my nightly prayers. I
told everyone my mom was having a girl. My mom was concerned that if by chance
she had a boy it would destroy my faith. She used to ask me, â€œWhat if I have
another boy?â€ I would simply reply. â€œItâ€™s a girl mom.â€ Well, of course she
had a girl.

Another story my dad told me, that I donâ€™t quite remember as much, was during
a baseball All-Star tournament when I was 11 years old. We were driving to
Vernal to play their all-star team. I remember being excited because they had an
actual little league field with smaller fences, whereas the fields we played on
in Roosevelt were all large menâ€™s softball fields. I told my dad that I was
going to hit a home-run that day. He smiled and said, â€œYou are huh?â€ My
replay was, â€œYep, I prayed about it.â€

I did hit a home-run in that game and it was a very joyful experience. But now I
look back and think, _â€œWhy would God care about my concern to hit a homerun?â€
_

First of all, I really donâ€™t know. But a few possible answers came to mind
while pondering this question. First, the simple act of praying in faith led to
a blessing in which God, in his love, helped me achieve my desire. I also
remember at times when I couldnâ€™t sleep, my parents would tell me to think of
a happy thought. Remembering this even often helped calm my fears and worries
and put me to sleep.

Even up into high school I would pray for help in my baseball, basketball, and
football games. I remember my senior year going out into a field behind our
house and praying to God for many things. But I remember specifically asking,
that if He be willing, that he would allow our team to take state. Certainly our
team was good enough to do so. We had a great season and we had the top seat
going into the tournament. Yet it turned out that I broke my arm while pitching
in a semi final game against, ironically enough, Vernal. This is really a whole
new story altogether, but we ended up taking second place. I was completely fine
with that because I knew that God had heard my prayers and answered them in His
own way, according to His will, and not mine. Events that occurred during that
time were some of the greatest spiritual experiences that increased my faith and
testimony and helped prepare me to leave home, serve a mission, and trust in the
Lord as I left my family and friends.

It is often the little things, that when done regularly and faithfully can have
the greatest impact on our lives and bring about miracles. Picture the young boy
Joseph who just wanted to do what was right and go to church. Yet he wanted it
to be the right church â€“the church which God most wanted him to go to. He soon
learned that he could not rely on the words of others to determine which church
God wanted him to go to. He read the Bible in hopes of finding an answer, and
also learned that he could not get the information he needed from the Bible
alone because â€œthe teachers of religion of the different sects understood the
same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in
settling the question by an appeal to the Bible.â€ [JSH 1:12] But it was through
his faith and diligence that he continued to study the Bible in which he learned
how to find the answer he was seeking. He â€œwas one day reading the Epistle of
James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: _ If any of you lack wisdom,
let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it
shall be given him.â€ _[JSH 1:11]

Joseph recounted:

â€œNever did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man
than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into
every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and againâ€¦â€ [JSH 1:12]â€

Notice he did not read this scripture and immediately go pray. He â€œreflected
on it again and again.â€ In other words, he pondered. He grew in faith. I
believe that on that early spring morning in 1820, as Joseph went in to the
woods, he knew in perfect faith that he would receive the answer he was looking
for. I donâ€™t think he thought God the Father and Jesus Christ would actually
appear to him, but he knew that by going into the woods and asking God â€œin
faith, nothing wavering,â€ [James 1:6] that we would then know for himself which
church he should join.

Well, from his childlike faith came the greatest miracle and blessing in these
last days. The heavens were opened. God the Eternal Father and His Only Begotten
Son Jesus Christ, came down and talked with the boy Joseph. The great work of
the restoration of the truth began. Joseph Smith left the grove that morning
with knowledge that God and Jesus Christ live. Like the Brother of Jared, â€œhe
had faith no longer, for he knew, nothing doubting.â€

I know that this event is real. I know Joseph Smith was and is a true prophet of
God. He is a martyr for the truth. I am grateful for his life and work. I know
that God lives. I know he loves us. I know he hears and answers my prayers, when
I pray in faith. I know His Son, Jesus Christ lives. He walked upon this earth.
He experienced all that He could possibly can experience here upon the earth so
that he may know how to succor us, His people. I know he bled and died for our
sins, for my sins, if we repent, if I repent. I know that by faith all things
are accomplished. I say these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
