---
author: Dustin Davis
comments: false
date: 2007-11-21 16:12:21+00:00
link: https://dustindavis.me/10-puns/
slug: 10-puns
title: 10 Puns
banner: ../banner.jpg
bannerCredit:
  'Photo by [Patrick Fore](https://www.patrickfore.com/) on
  [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)'
categories:
  - Humor
---

I'm not a big fan of puns. But the last two made me smile - maybe because the
first 8 were so bad.

1. Two vultures board an airplane, each carrying two dead raccoons. The
   stewardess looks at them and says, "I'm sorry, gentlemen, only only one
   [carrion](http://www.answers.com/main/ntquery?gwp=13&s=carrion) allowed per
   passenger."

2. Two fish swim into a concrete wall. The one turns to the other and says,
   "Dam! ... "

3. Two Eskimos sitting in a kayak were chilly, so they lit a fire in the craft.
   Unsurprisingly it sank, proving once again that you can't have your kayak and
   heat it too.

4. Two hydrogen atoms meet. One says, "I've lost my electron." The other says,
   "Are you sure?" The first replies "Yes, I'm positive."

5. Did you hear about the Buddhist who refused Novocain during a root canal? He
   wanted to
   [transcend dental medication](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcendental_Meditation).

6. A group of chess enthusiasts checked into a hotel and were standing in the
   lobby discussing their recent tournament victories. After about an hour, the
   manager came out of the office and asked them to disperse. 'But why?" they
   asked, as they moved off. "Because", he said, "I can't stand chess nuts
   boasting in an open foyer."

7. A woman has twins and gives them up for adoption One of them goes to a family
   in Egypt and is named "Ahmal." The other goes to a family in Spain; they name
   him "Juan." Years later, Juan sends a picture of himself to his birth mother.
   Upon receiving the picture, she tells her husband that she wishes she also
   had a picture of Ahmal. Her husband responds, "They're twins! If you've seen
   Juan, you've seen Ahmal."

8. These friars were behind on their belfry payments, so they opened up a small
   florist shop to raise funds. Since everyone liked to buy flowers from the men
   of God, a rival florist across town thought the competition was unfair. He
   asked the good fathers to close down, but they would not. He went back and
   begged the friars to close. They ignored him. So, the rival florist hired
   Hugh MacTaggart, the roughest and most vicious thug in town to "persuade"
   them to close. Hugh beat up the friars and trashed their store, saying he'd
   be back if they didn't close up shop. Terrified, they did so, thereby proving
   that Hugh, and only Hugh, can prevent florist friars.

9. Mahatma Gandhi, as you know, walked barefoot most of the time, which produced
   an impressive set of calluses on his feet. He also ate very little, which
   made him rather frail and with his odd diet, he suffered from bad breath.
   This made him ...(Oh, man, this is so bad, it's good)... A super calloused
   fragile mystic hexed by halitosis.

10. And finally, there was the person who sent ten different puns to his
    friends, with the hope that at least one of the puns would make them laugh.
    No pun in ten did.
