---
author: Dustin Davis
comments: true
date: 2009-02-13 21:07:18+00:00
link: https://dustindavis.me/vista-ubuntu-mac-windows-7-what-to-do/
slug: vista-ubuntu-mac-windows-7-what-to-do
title: Vista, Ubuntu, Mac, Windows 7... what to do?
banner: ../banner.jpg
bannerCredit:
  'Photo by [Patrick Fore](https://www.patrickfore.com/) on
  [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)'
categories:
  - Technology
---

So I've been running Vista for the past year and a half. I know Vista gets a lot
of grief, but overall, I really like the OS. Well, I should say I like**d** the
OS because I'm not too happy with it now.

I recently purchased a new iPhone. After synching it with my Vista PC I started
having strange problems. I can't say it all started here. Let me go back a bit
to when I first installed Vistaâ€¦

In August 2007 I built my own PC. I ordered a copy of Vista Ultimate. I wanted
Ultimate mainly so I could have the media center to try out and to have remote
access to my computer while I was at work.

Trying to install was a nightmare. After about 5 tries I think I finally got it
to "stick". Generally what would happen was I would got through the install and
it would freeze at random points. That led me to believe I had a bad piece of
hardware â€“ such as the memory or hard drive. Ultimately, I figured I got it to
work when I upped the voltage on my RAM â€“ despite severe warning from my BIOS.

So I have been running Vista since them without major incident. There were
problems. For example, I could never get SP1 to install. It would take over an
hour when it tried then stop on the last stage, then another hour to uninstall
itself. I never could get that figured out. There were also some other windows
updates that would not install, but I didn't worry too much about them.

At one point I swapped out my processor. That seemed to take my system to its
knees and I thought I would have to reinstall the OS completely, but luckily I
got it working.

So back to the iPhone. I can't say for sure it was the iPhone, but that is the
only change I can think of that would have caused my problems. Things started
acting weird and lost internet access and programs wouldn't run. So I decided to
reboot. After that I could not get Vista to boot again. It would try but always
give me a blue screen of death.

Again, I gave Vista the benefit and thought maybe my hardware is bad. I tried
chkdsk but that didn't help. I tried it memory test and it froze in the middle
so I figured maybe I have a bad piece of RAM? But I happened to have an old
Ubuntu instance on there and I could boot to that just fine and access all my
windows files.

In any case I couldn't get into Vista at all. So I decided it was time to wife
my hard drive clean and start over. I decided to first try Ubuntu. I downloaded
the 64 bit edition (I was running 32 bit Vista â€“ I heard there was problems
with 64 bit when I built my system). I was amazed at how fast and smooth the
install went.

Once I got Ubuntu installed I did some configuring to get my dual 22" monitors
to work and then installed [VirtualBox](http://www.virtualbox.org/) and
installed Vista inside of virtual box (my Vista install has never gone so
smoothly)

VirtualBox was cool and you could certainly do some cool things to make Windows
look somewhat native, but despite giving the VM 2 GB of RAM to work it, it still
didn't perform as well as I had hoped. Plus, I tried to get my files off of my
[mozy](http://mozy.com/) back-up and couldn't.

These were all things I was willing to tinker with a bit then I realize a big
problem I hadâ€¦ The main product I develop only runs on IE due to ActiveX
controls! I didn't want to spend my working day inside a VM. Eventually I
decided to go back to Vista.

There are just some apps I need to have that run in Windows and not Linux, or
don't have good enough Linux counterparts, or maybe they do, but I've gotten too
comfortable using what I have, such as:

- E â€“ my favorite editor (I suppose I could have made gedit work, butâ€¦)

- Photoshop

- BeyondCompare

- Mozy

- TortoiseSVN

- Xampp

- GoToMeeting

- IE7 (for one site only â€“ the one I work on)

- Google Chrome

- MS Office (Sorry, I don't like OpenOffice.org)

- iTunes (better support for iPhone & iPod)

- Windows Media Center (couldn't get MythTV running â€“ didn't want to spend
  much time on it anyway)

- Manufacturers printer/scanner drivers and software

Down the road I may go back to Ubuntu someday when I'm not in a work environment
that is dependant on Windows. But for now, I'm not in that spot.

Now, on to the Vista install. The first two attempts failed â€“ they froze in
the middle of installation. The third attempt almost made it. It crashed during
the configuration stage. I thought it might be okay, but once I got it and I
couldn't get automatic updates to work. I also tried downloading and installing
SP1 and it crashed every time too â€“ sometimes with the blue screen of death.

At this point I didn't know what to do. I had just wiped out my Ubuntu set up
that I had spent about 8 hours configuring. I have XP, but I don't want to go
back thereâ€¦ I was certainly not going to buy another copy of Vista just to get
a decent installer and SP1. So I looked forward. I grabbed a copy of Windows 7
beta and installed it.

Gratefully there were no errors on the install. Everything seems to be running
fine. I'm writing this post from Windows Live Writer. All my apps I had on Vista
seem to work great on Windows 7. No problems so far â€“ except for Mozy. I think
once I finally get my files back from mozy, I'll drop their service and use
JungleDisk for online back up.

Now, a word to you Mac missionariesâ€¦ I could use a Mac, but I don't want to. I
don't hate Mac. I just don't understand why people love them so. I grew up on
Macs. It wasn't until I got into a CAD class that I ever used a PC. I felt I had
just gotten into the real world of computers where you could actually do cool
things (what? you can put more than one button on a mouse?). I'm sure it was
just a perception. Don't tell me Macs don't have problems. After high school I
worked for the school district. All we had were Macs. I've spent hours fixing
Mac problems. If I could put the Mac OS on my existing hardware (legally) then I
might try out the new OS. My dad still owns a Mac, so it's not like I haven't
kept up. I'm still not that impressed. I'm not going to buy their overpriced
hardware just for their OS. (Well, maybe, if I decide I want to make some iPhone
apps I might look into a mac mini). Rant over.
