---
author: Dustin Davis
comments: true
date: 2010-06-30 15:13:40+00:00
link: https://dustindavis.me/afcu-rocks/
slug: afcu-rocks
title: America First Credit Union Rocks!
banner: ../banner.jpg
bannerCredit:
  'Photo by [Patrick Fore](https://www.patrickfore.com/) on
  [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)'
categories:
  - Finance
---

I was listening to the [Dave Ramsey Show](http://www.daveramsey.com/radio/home/)
podcast yesterday when Dave went off on Bank of America and large banks in
general. He then praised his small community bank. That got me thinking about my
bank - America First Credit Union. I've been with them for nearly 10 years now.
I thought I would take some time to share some past experiences as to why I love
them so. This is totally unsolicited. I'm not getting paid to promote AFCU. I
just wanted to give them praise where praise is due.

## History & Past Experiences

My first checking account was with First Security Bank. I chose them simply
because their office was the closest to where I worked. They were OK I guess.
Just a bank to me. Then, the office were I worked was moved across town. Still
it wasn't too bad because I also moved apartments and had a branch within a mile
of my apartment. Then, a few events occurred then that caused me to switch
banks:

1. I got married

2. First Security Bank was bought out by Wells Fargo

3. We moved

There was a discussion at work and someone brought up the fact that he recently
switched banks to [America First Credit Union](https://www.americafirst.com/)
and really loved their service and online banking. It was totally unsolicited
and out of the blue. After hearing the recommendation for AFCU, I was really
curious about their online banking because I hated First Security's lame attempt
at it and the transition to Wells Fargo didn't seem to be going smoothly. I had
seen AFCU branches around. Since moving there was actually an AFCU branch in the
supermarket closest to us, so we switched.

They guy at work was right. AFCU's web interface was so much better and cleaner.
They even had free online bill pay, which Wells Fargo was charging for at the
time I believe.

I just wanted to share a few experiences that has kept AFCU on my awesome list
over the years.

Before I ever heard about Dave Ramsey, I had car payments. I wanted 5 speed
Nissan Maxima so bad and when I finally found one I had stupid written all over
my forehead. I bought that car for \$18K and got a 8% loan from Wells Fargo
(through the Nissan Dealership). As rates started to drop I decided to refinance
it through AFCU. I think I got the rate down to the 5% area and saved quite a
bit on the payments. Plus, after than, making payments was as easy
asÂ transferringÂ the money in my online banking - and it really was easy. The
9/11 event occurred shortly after that and auto loan rates continued to fall.
Each time they did, I would send a message to AFCU via the online banking portal
and ask if I could lower my rate. They would mail a paper for me to sign, and I
would send it back. No fees. Super simple! What other bank does that?! I had
that car loan down to 3.9%! (or was it 2.9%... I can't remember) I was so
pleased with their car loan process that I bought 2 other cars by getting loans
through AFCU. The process was always quick and painless. (I now feel obligated
to say that I don't have car payments because I have seen the debt free light)
;)

When we moved to our second home we didn't have any AFCU branches near us. In
our previous area we had 4 branches all within a 5 minute drive. Shortly after
moving, a popular Wal-Mart was being torn down and rebuilt into a Super
Wal-Mart. I sent an email to AFCU and suggested that it would be really great if
they could manage to get a branch in that Wal-Mart because they really didn't
have much of a presence in that area. I got a reply letting me know that the
email had been forwarded to the powers that be and they would see what they
could do. Sure enough, when Wal-Mart was completed AFCU was there.

Unfortunately, everyone else soon realized how cool AFCU was and they branch got
so crowded at times that I dreaded waiting in line there. I had to do it every
two weeks because my new employer was so old school that they didn't do direct
deposit (that's another story in and of itself). I'm sure AFCU noticed the
popularity there because they have since built another branch just down the
street with lots of drive through windows.

When I decided to form an S Corp for all my side business I was torn as to what
bank to use. I really wanted to use AFCU but they didn't offer free business
checking as they did personal business checking so I went with Key Bank. They
offered free business checking and were the closest bank to my house. When we
moved to our third home there was no Key Bank nearby so I looked around again
and then learned that AFCU now offered free business checking, so I switched in
a heartbeat.

It seems AFCU has always kept up on the latest technology trends. They have
worked with every online service and mobile banking service I have tried. When I
started writing my own
[envelope budgeting application (Inzolo)](https://inzolo.com), I wanted to find
a way to import transactions directly from my bank rather than download
transaction files then importing into Inzolo. AFCU has an OFX server and their
implementation is so awesome that it made itÂ possibleÂ for me to develop and
test an OFX import tool for Inzolo. Now I have a nice budgeting application that
integrates very nicely with my bankÂ accounts.

A few months ago I attended a [launchup](http://www.launchup.org/) event where
[CFOwise](http://www.cfowise.com) partner Ken Kaufman made that statement that
the only time you should enter your bank is to open your account. Now I know
AFCU has always offered the ability to mail checks in to cash them. But it isn't
any more convenient that going through the drive-through teller IMHO. But just
recently AFCU has now added the ability to scan your check images with a scanner
and deposit them through their online interface. How cool is that!? The only
down side is that it is only available for personal accounts so I can't deposit
business checks this way. I
[tweeted](http://twitter.com/DustinDavis/status/16573665718) about it and got a
[reply](http://twitter.com/AFCU/status/16698990316) that they are working on it
and hope to have the ability to deposit business checks soon. I'm sure they
will.

Thanks for everything AFCU. Keep up the great work!
