---
slug: disney-world-2021
title: Disney World 2021
date: 2021-03-03
author: Dustin Davis
description: My experience and recommendations for the Happiest Place on Earth
categories:
  - Disney
  - Family
  - Vacation
banner: ./images/banner.jpg
bannerCredit:
  Photo by [Brian McGowan](https://unsplash.com/@sushioutlaw) on
  [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)
---

We just got back from an 8-day trip to Florida. My wife has been to Disney World
when she was a child with her family. Other than that, this was our family's
first trip to Florida.

## The Planning

You could say this was a spontaneous trip. In my opinion, February is the worst
month of the year. I'm tired of the cold and the inversion that settles over
Utah. The excitement of the Holidays has ended, and the inherent motivation that
comes with a new year starts to wane.

Last fall we had two vacations cancelled to due the "pandemic". One was to
Disneyland, the other was our 20th anniversary to Hawaii.

As I started seeming pictures of friends in Disney World, I started getting a
hankering to be there. My wife talked me out of the idea when I brought it up,
so I laid it to rest. Then I reach out to my friend who owns a car dealership to
ask him about a car. As we are catching up he tells me how they just got back
from Florida.

"It‚Äôs was amazing. No fast pass. 30% capacity. Only open 9 to 7 so you don‚Äôt
have to kill yourselves... I don‚Äôt know how long it will last ?!?"

That was the trigger! I was back online pricing everything out.

I calculated for our family of 7 traveling from Utah, we would pay around \$10K
for the flights, boarding, car rental, and park passes (6 days at Disney, 1 day
at Universal).

The best flight I found was through Jet Blue. The base price was
$1700 with no layovers. As I went to check out, the price went up to $2700. üò°

I could move the date out a week or two for the same price, but that would put
is into March with is Spring Break time frame and put our kids missing school at
the end of the trimester or start of the new trimester.

I was able to find a flight on Delta with a layover in Atlanta for around \$2k
which still kept us in budget.

That basically gave us two weeks to plan and organize.

Luckily we have a number of friends who have been ther recently. Our neighbors
had been there in December and were going to be there again around the same time
from as us. We also went to dinner with our friends that had just gotten back.
They gave us all their best tips on which rides are a must, when to be at the
parks, how to get a pass on Rise of the Resistence, etc.

I also watched a number of videos on YouTube, but bar far, our friends were the
most helpful resource.

## Iternerary

Based on all the information I got this is how I planned the trip. We did
1-park-at-a-time tickets, because I've heard it can take up to 90 minutes to
leave and get into another park. Also, with the COVID rules and the shortened
hours, there is more to plan that way.

### Tuesday Feb 23

    ‚úÖ Get up at 2 AM
    ‚úÖ Leave home by 3 AM
    ‚úÖ Flight departs at 6 AM
    ‚úÖ Land in Florida at 2:25 PM
    ‚úÖ Pick up car rental
    ‚úÖ Find Airbnb rental - check in around 4 pm
    ‚úÖ Purchase groceries for the week
    ‚úÖ Pack treats for Disney
    ‚úÖ Get some rest

### Wednesday Feb 24

    ‚úÖ Wake up at 6:30
    ‚úÖ Get boarding pass for Rise of the Resistence ride at 7 AM
    ‚úÖ Disney Hollywood Studios

### Thursday Feb 25

We basically wanted to spend 1 day at Universal - mainly for our daughter who
graduates this year. It is hear dream to visit Hogwarts.

    ‚úÖ Universal Studios Day

### Friday Feb 26

    ‚úÖ Disney Magic Kingdom

### Saturday Feb 27

    ‚úÖ Disney Epcot

### Sunday Feb 28

    ‚ùå Disney Animal Kingdom
    ‚úÖ Watch church online at 1:30

### Monday March 1

    ‚ùå Disney Magic Kingdom
    ‚úÖ Pack

### Tuesday March 2

    ‚úÖ Load car and check out
    ‚ùå Disney Hollywood Studios
    ‚úÖ Leave park at 4 pm
    ‚úÖ Flight at 7:15 pm
    ‚úÖ Land at 12:15 AM
    ‚úÖ Home around 2 AM

## The Trip

So here are how things actually played out.

### Tuesday Feb 23 - Flight / Disney Springs

All went according to our itinerary getting there.

We did have to upgrade our vehicle. We got a Ford Expedition but upgraded to the
Expedition Max so we could fit our luggage in. It was basically the same car we
drive at home, only it was a couple of years newer with some "limited" features
that were nice. But it was great to comfortable and familiar with the rental
car.

We did follow a tip from our neighbors and ordered our groceries from Walmart
and had them ready to pick up that night when we got there so we didn't have to
spend time shopping for them. We use that service every week but hadn't thought
to do it there. That was a great tip!

Since we had some extra time that night, we went to Disney Springs and picked up
our park tickets so that we would be ready to go in the morning. That was also a
great time saver.

While we were in Disney Springs, we ate dinner at Planet Hollywood. That was a
fun start to the trip.

### Wednesday Feb 24 - Hollywood Studios

I got a great tip from my friend on how to get on the Rise of the Resistence
ride. These virtual borading passes are gone in 15 seconds, so if you don't do
it right, or you have any hiccups, you don't ride. My brother-in-law was there
at the same time and he had failed to get on 3 times and he was getting pretty
frustrated. I found a [YouTube video](https://youtu.be/yPvo-lWMQLs) with
essentially the same steps as my friend showed me, but it walks you thought it
carefully. It worked like a charm for mand for my brother-in-law.

Our friends told us they open the parking lots 1 hour before the posted opening
time and that you can get right into the park once you have parked. This was
true, so this was our plan every morning.

Once we walked in, cast members were directing us to Mickey & Minnie's Runaway
Railroad, which was only 15 minutes wait. I'm glad we did that first. We were
done with our first ride before the park was scheduled to open. The rest of the
day, the line for that ride was insane, so I'm glad we hit that first.

Overall it was a great first day. We were able to go on all the rides we wanted
to and we found some great treats. My favorite treat there was Jack Jack Num
Nums - which they also have in California Adventure. What would make that treat
even better would be to put it on a plate and cover it with soft-serve ice
cream!

After dinner, we met up with Rachel's sister and their family. We didn't plan
it, but their vacation happened to overlap ours. This happened a few years ago
in Disneyland as well. We met them for dinner at
[Giodano's](https://giordanos.com/). Their pizza was basically like lasagna in
the form of pizza. It was delicious!

### Thursday Feb 25 - Universal

We planned Universal on a weekday hoping it wouldn't be too crowded. I'm
learning there is no such thing as not-crowded in a theme park.

Unfortunately I didn't spend any researching Universal and I was pretty lost
when we got there. It made for a terrible experience. I followed the crowd and
everyone was entering the Island of Adventure entrance. I saw some people
looking confused and looking at the signs when a staff member yelled, "Everyone
can enter this entrance!" So that is what we did. We got in line.

The experience was not as smooth as Disney. They record everyone's fingerprint.
That takes a while because it didn't work very well. Once we got everyone
through that, we got stopped and told they need to scan our tickets again. They
then proceeded to ask a bunch of unimportant questions and I realized I was
taking a survey. They asked for my email and said no thanks.

Our main goal at Universal was to ride Hagrid's. So we headed in that direction.
A girl was walking alone and said she was going that way, so we followed her.
Unfortunately, halfway through the park we got stopped because we didn't have a
season pass and we were not staying at a Universal property. They said we would
have to wait another 30 minutes for the park to open to us. So we had to
backtrack and leave IOA and go to the Universal entrance and wait in line again.

Getting in wasn't an easy task since my fingerprint was not recognized. Once we
got everyone through again we got stopped yet again and told they need to scan
our tickets again. I told them we to bugger off because we just did their stupid
survey.

Our main reason for being at Universal, was Harry Potter land. But since it was
there we decided to ride the Minions ride. It said the wait time was 30 minutes.
We waited in line for 45 minutes and barely moved at all. I was pretty
frustrated with everything we had experienced so far so I went and complained to
customer service. That took another 30 minutes, but I got 3 express passes for
each of us out of it. I came back to find my family still had not made it on
that ride so we left. It was 11 AM already and we wanted to get something fun in
before the day was over! We headed back towards Harry Potter land.

Finding this land was not as easy as one would think. I remember my mom telling
me that she went there a couple years ago and whe was at the back of the park
and saw someone walk through an unmarked entrance. It opened up into the Harry
Potter land. She was right. There is not much there pointing you where to go. I
was staring at map on my phone and still confused as to where exactly the
entrance was.

Once we got in we decided to use our first express pass to ride Gringot's Bank.
They stopped us on our way in because we had backpacks and hip packs. If it
wasn't clear by now, this is not Disney! You can't take bags on most rides. They
pointed us to the locker room so we went that direction. They stopped us again
and said only one person could enter. So I collected all the bags and went in
myself. The employee told me I would need to pay for a big locker since I had so
much stuff. So I went that direction. It took me another 20 minutes trying to
figure out their locker system! Talk about terrible UX! I had to pay for two
lockers because 7 backpacks would not fit in one.

The ride was fun. I learned that here they squirt hand sanitizer in your hands
before getting on any ride. That sound nice right? Well, it's not. It was the
most foul-smelling hand sanitizer ever and they put way too much on. It was
normal to see people shake as much off their hands as they could before rubbing
it in.

Once we got off the ride, I went back to retrieve all our bags. The lockers
would not open when I scanned my tickets so I had to find an employee to come
open them manually. Unfortunately, I couldn't remember for sure which locker
they were in! So I had to describe the contents and open a few lockers until we
found the right stuff.

We spent some time hanging out in Diagon Alley, eating ice cream and drinking
butter beer. We then used another express pass to ride the Hogwarts Express over
to IOA.

Then we got in line for Hagrid's. This was the longest line in the park. It
moved pretty quickly though and we seemed to hit it around the right time of
day - lunchtime. Here we learned that we could get all our bags in 4 small
lockers for free! Griffey had to use the bathroom as we got pretty close to the
castle so I had to exit and take him back down. They let us get try to find our
family though and we were lucky enough to find them right as they were about to
get on the ride.

Hagrid's made the whole Universal experience worth it. It was everyone's
favorite ride of the whole trip!

The rest of the day was downhill from there. Many of the rides at Universal
utilize 3d glasses and it gets old after a while. I was content to spend a lot
of time sitting in a mask-free area of Seuss land while Griffey and Murphy went
on the rides in that area.

As I said, Universal is no Disney. If I were to do it again, I would probably
have a trip where I just went there instead of Disney. Doing both gets really
expensive. The more days you spend in each park, the cheaper each day is. I
would say you need at least two days for Universal to experience everything and
not feel rushed - especially when they have limited park hours due to covid. I
would also get the express passes - but buying those for one day would have been
an extra \$1000 when I booked and even more expensive when I got there. The
price goes up the more they sell I guess.

### Friday Feb 26 - Magic Kingdom

Friday was the last day Rachel's sister's family was there, so we agreed to meet
up at Magic Kindom that day. Magic Kingdom is the most like Disneyland - which I
know well by now. There are some very interesting differences though.

First, once you think you are close to the park entrance, you are not. You have
to ride the monorail or a ferry to get to the entrance because there is a big
lake between the parking lot and the park.

The lands are laid out similarly but, there are different rides. Our favorite
ride in Magic Kingdom is 7 Dwarfs Minecart. There was never less than a
60-minute wait there.

The Peter Pan ride seems to be the first ride everyone runs to in Disneyland.
They had it here. The line was nicer because you get to see more of their
bedroom and stuff. The ride itself is a little different, and I have to say, I
prefer Disneyland. The biggest thing I found I missed on that ride was the
floating stars you pass through.

All it all it was a fun day and it was fun spending half of it with cousins
before they had to leave to catch their flight home.

It seems Disney World has the luxury of not having to tear rides down to make
room for new ones. They can simply find some open space to add new rides and
leave the old ones around. This is not the case in Disneyland. It is sad to see
old rides go or get changed.

### Saturday Feb 27 - Epcot

Epcot is probably the most iconic park in Disneyworld so we had to go, but I
planned it on a Saturday, thinking Saturdays would be the busiest day for any
park. There are not as many good rides here and one absolutely terrible ride (if
you want to even call it a ride). Our first stop was Soarin' - which is pretty
much like the California Adventure version. We then went on Test track - which
was like Radiator Springs Racers - without all the fun cool theme of Cars land.

After that, we spent the day walking to each of the country themed areas that
make Epcot what it is. Our main goal was to try food in every land.

Hands down, everyone's favorite land was Norway! They had a bakery there with
the most delicious food. We went back for seconds on the school bread. They also
had one of the best rides in the park - Frozen. And they had the best rest
area - a restaurant that was just used as a sitting area where you could take
off your masks and sit and enjoy your food.

In second place, I would put France. They had some good crapes there and a
delicious ice cream store where you could get a giant ice cream sandwich made
with macaroons. Once they complete and open the Ratatouille ride, I think it
will compete with Norway as the best "country" in Epcot.

It looks like they were also adding two more attraction besides Ratatouille, so
in a couple of years, Epcot will be more than just adults walking around looking
for their next alcohol.

### Sunday Feb 28 - Cocoa Beach

In our original plans, I had planned on going to Animal Kingdom on Sunday. I
wanted to get the most out of every day of our trip. But after purchasing all
the tickets and talking with Rachel, we just didn't feel good about spending the
Sabbath in a theme park. So we decided to relax this day. We slept in later than
usual and drove to Cocoa beach. It was over an hour drive from our condo.

Once we got there we found a parking lot and turned watched our sacrament
meeting back home from within our car. We then ate lunch at a nearby gazebo and
picnic table, then walked over to the beach.

The beach was way more crowded than expected. I realized that this was the
relaxing sabbath activity I had pictured in my head. The boys just wanted to
play in the ocean. So they did, but we didn't pack swimming suits, so they drove
home in wet shorts.

If I were to do this again, I would spend 4 days at Disney - one in each park,
and spend a day at Cocoa beach where we could spend some time enjoying the beach
more.

### Monday March 1 - Animal Kingdom

Of all the Disney parks, I would say I was least excited for Animal Kingdom. I
guess in my head I pictured spending all our time on "fake" safaris. Having been
to real game parks in South Africa, I figured this would be like driving safely
through a zoo. In a way, it was, but the safari was better than I thought it
would be. I'm just not a big animal lover, so it is not my thing.

I would say the best two rides there are Everest and Flight of Passage. We went
straight to Flight of Passage and got right on. That was good because the line
was a mile long the rest of the day. It is basically Soarin', but on a more
uncomfortable seat. üòÇ It wasn't as great as I anticipated.

Everest was a lot more thrilling than I anticipated, unfortunately it made me
sick. I've found as I have gotten older I tend to get motion sickness where I
never have in the past. Younger me would have gone on it 5 times because there
was practically no line!

The Dinosaur ride was pretty much all the mechanics of the Indiana Jones ride in
Disneyland, but with with a really lame story line. It is not engaging at all
and just makes for an uncomfortably bumpy ride.

We were pretty much done with everyone in Animal Kingdom, so we left around 3
pm. No one really had any desire to stay. So, we went back to the condo and
spent some time at the pool that night.

### Tuesday March 2 - Magic Kingdom

We held a vote as to which park to visit again for our last day. I voted for
Hollywood Studios, but the majority of the family picked Magic Kingdom. I was ok
with that though because I really wanted another kakamora float! That was the
best treat of the trip! It was sold at the Dole whip booth. It had coconut soft
serve ice cream with pinapple juice and a cake pop.

We went on our favorite rides there again and left around 3 pm to catch our
flight home.

I must say at this point I was pretty much Disneyed out. I was feeling broke and
exhausted. Family trip success!?
